PETE LEPAGE: The CSS Paint API
allows you to programmatically
generate an image, the
Server Timing API allows
web servers to provide
performance timing
information via HTTP headers,
and the new CSS Display
Contents property can
make boxes disappear.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 65.
The CSS Paint API allows you
to programmatically generate
an image for CSS properties,
like background image or border
image.
Instead of referencing
an image, you
can use the new Paint
function to draw the image,
much like a canvas element.
For example, instead of
adding extra Dom elements
to create a ripple effect
on a material style button,
you could just
use the Paint API.
It's also a powerful method
for poly-filling CSS features
that aren't supported
in the browser yet.
Surma has a great post
with several demos
linked in his explainer linked
in the description below.
Hopefully, you're using the
Navigation and Resource Timing
APIs to track the performance
of your site for real users.
Until now, there
hasn't been an easy way
for the server to report
its performance timing.
The new Server Timing
API allows your server
to pass timing information
to the browser,
giving you a better picture
of the overall performance.
You can track as many
metrics as you want--
database read time, startup
times, or whatever's
important to you--
by adding a Server Timing
Header to your response.
They're shown in Chrome DevTools
or you can pull them out
of the response
header and save them
with your other
performance analytics.
Adding display content
to the outer div
makes that outer div
disappear, and its constraints
are no longer applied
to the inner div.
The inner div is now 100% width.
There are plenty of cases
where this might be useful.
The most common one
is with Flexbox.
With Flexbox, only the immediate
children of a flex container
become flex items, but once
you apply display contents
to a child, its children
become flex items
and are laid out using
the same rules that would
be applied to their parent.
Check out Rachel Andrew's
excellent post Vanishing Boxes
with Display Content linked
in the description below.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 65
for Developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
The syntax for specifying
HSL and HSLA and RGB and RGBA
coordinates for
the color property
now match the CSS color 4 spec.
There's a new
feature policy that
allows you to control
synchronous XHRs
through an HTTP header or
the iframe allow attribute.
All the details, including
links to the docs and specs,
are in the description below.
Don't forget to check out the
latest new in Chrome DevTools
video to learn what's
new in DevTools.
And if you're interested
in progressive web apps,
check out the new PWA
roadshow video series.
Then, click that
Subscribe button,
and you'll get an email
notification whenever
we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 66 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.